So let's start about Linear
vs Poisson regression.
So remember in GLMs,
we don't love the outcome itself, or
we don't take a transformation
of the outcome itself,
we take transformation of
the mean of the outcome.
So linear models,
our outcome is the linear component
plus the error, or we could
just write that as the expected value
of the outcome is the linear compnent.
In a Poisson log-linear model,
it's the log of the expected
outcome that is the linear part.
Log of the expected number of web hits
per day is b0 + b1 times the Julian date.
We could reverse that process by
exponentiating both sides of that equation
and just say the mean web hits
per day now, depends on E to
the linear regression model, okay?
So, that's the main difference,
is that we're going to assume our data
is Poisson distributed with a mean.
And that mean takes this form,
E to the b0 + b1 times the regressor.
Okay, and that's the main difference,
though it changes
the interpretation a lot.
We get a distribution that's
much more believable for
our observed outcomes, okay.
And we get relative interpretations
because everything's logged.
Our coefficients are going to be
interpreted in a relative sense,
just like when we logged the outcome.
Though we're going to avoid
problems like taking logs of 0,
like we had on the previous slide, okay.
Now, I want to reiterate,
taking logs of your outcomes is actually,
often, a very good thing to do.
That's a trick that you should apply,
not just for count data, but
in general on regression.
If you have positive data, log is one
of the best transformations you can do,
it's extremely helpful.
The coefficients remain as, if not more,
interpretable on the log scale.
So that's a great transformation to do.
Some of the other transformations,
could be square root or cube root data,
then it gets hard.
Okay, so let's just remind ourselves
that the differences that we're
looking at are now multiplicative when
we transform back to the natural scale.
So if we've look at our model,
it's the expected value of the outcome
is E to the beta naught plus
beta one times the Julian date.
Well, by the properties of expected value,
we can factor out beta naught in
beta one times the Julian date.
Now, if we looked at what
would be the expected mean for
the next day,
the Julian date plus one, right,
that would be e to the b0 + b1 (JD + 1),
okay?
So divide this by that,
and you get e to the B1.
So our coefficient E to
our slope coefficient is
interpreted as the relative increase or
decrease in the mean per one unit
change in the regressor, okay?
And so if we exponentiate our coefficient,
we're going to be looking at whether or
not they're close to 1.
If we leave them on the log scale,
we're going to be looking at whether or
not they're close to 0.
And, again, all of these interpretations,
when we extend them to
the mutivariant setting,
E to the beta one is the expected relative
increase or decrease in web traffic,
holding the other coefficient,
holding the other regressors constant.
Okay?
So I'm hoping at this point that most of
this stuff is kind of old hat for you.
Okay, so here is our fitted Poisson
regression model overlayed onto our data.
And you can see it actually fits
pretty closely to the linear model,
though it has some nice curvature to it,
which is what we wanted.
We could have accomplished that in our
linear model by adding a squared term,
of course, but
it's nice to note that a simpler model
with fewer coefficients seems
to fit the data better.
A concern, often, is that
the variance has to equal the mean.
So the variance, in this case,
needs to go up as the mean goes up.
But here if we plot the fitted
values versus the residuals,
it's very clear that the variance
is higher for lower mean values.
That's the problem, okay.
So we need at least
some way to account for
the fact that the variance
is not necessarily constant.
There's a lot of ways to do that,
and if you read in the book,
one thing that we talk about
are the quasi-Poisson models.
This model would look at the variance
being a constant multiple of the mean,
rather than being equal to the mean.
But, in this case, that doesn't appear to
be the case in this case because it looks
like we have this issue where
there's larger variance for
lower fitted values, when the Poisson
model assumes the opposite.
So Jeff actually had this code
from this model, the sandwich,
which seems like a funny name for
a package.
But it comes from the sandwich
variance estimator,
made famous by generalized estimating
equations, which by the way was
a technique that was invented here at
Johns Hopkins Biostatistics by two very
well-known professors here,
Scott Zeger and Kung-Yee Liang.
At any rate, Jeff did some code here for
getting model agnostic standard errors.
And if you read in the book, there's
a little bit more discussion about this.
This is kind of a more advanced topic than
we would like to delve into in this class.
However, it's a very important
applied topic, as well.
It's not just a theoretical exercise.
So, the main point is to do some
residual plots, to understand whether or
not you think your
model's assumptions hold.
Try quasi-Poisson model because
that's a very easy thing to do in R,
if you think at least it holds at some
level, but maybe not just in the sense
of the variance being a constant
multiple of the mean.
But if it really fails, like in this case,
then you have to dig in
to some other solutions.
So, in this case,
you see here's the confidence interval
on the top if we don't do anything.
If we do the model agnostic confidence
interval, you get on the bottom.
In this case, it doesn't actually make
that big of a difference between the two.
And, again, these are both,
of course, non-exponentiated.
If you want to exponentiate them,
which by the way, I should also mention,
exponentiating for a small coefficient
like this it basically just adds 1.
So, probably, if I were to enter this
into R, this would be about 1.002.
Just like before, about a 2% increase
on the low end being estimated,
0.21% increase estimated on the low end.
Maybe, at the highest possible,
0.3% increase per day on the high end.
So how do you handle rates?
So I should say rates and
proportions because I like to distinguish
between rates and proportions.
So this is an instance where you have
a count, and then you have some offset
that should tell you how large or
small the count should be.
So, for example, if I'm counting failures
of my nuclear pumps that I mentioned
before, I should have more failures if
I monitored them for a longer time.
If I'm counting the number of flu cases,
I should have more flu cases if I'm
looking at a larger population, right.
So I should have more flu cases in
a bigger city than I would have
in a smaller city.
So in all these cases, if the counts
that we're interested in have some
term that we really want to interpret
our count relative to that,
whether it's a unit of time, person,
time at risk, total sample size,
then what we want to do, and
it's quite simple how to do this in R.
The first thing we note is that we want to
actually interpret not the expected value
of the outcome, but the expected value of
the outcome divided by this relative term,
whether it's monitoring time,
person, time at risk or whatever.
So, in this case, Jeff is looking at
the number of web hits originating from
Simply Statistic, relative to
the total number of web hits, okay?
And he wants to model that as E to
the b0 + b1 times the Julian date,
so he want to model that proportion
as being this log-linear model.
Well, if you take the log of both sides,
and we mess around a little bit,
we see that we get kind of a similar
model to what we had before.
We get the log the outcome is
the linear regression part, but
that also it has this log
offset with no coefficient.
And that, it turns out,
is all you have to do to
add a regular proportion
into a Poisson GLM.
You just take whatever this relative
denominator count or time or whatever
it is that you want to consider, and add
it as a log offset in your linear model.
Okay, so the easy way to add this
offset into our linear model
is just to use of the term
offset equals log visits plus 1.
Remember, we have to add the plus 1
because we can't take the log of 0.
Remember, we have to have family equals
Poisson in the model statement here,
and by default it assumes a log
link which is what we want,
we haven't really covered any other kinds.
So, there's another way
you can add the offset.
I think you can add a plus 0 variable name
in the actual model specification part on
the right of the tilde, but
this is just as easy to do it as
an argument in the GLM function.
Here, Jeff gives the, the difference
between the GLM1 fitted rates,
which was, remember,
to the number of web hits,
versus the GLM2 fitted rates,
the assigned variable GLM2 fitted rates,
which was the relative number of web
hits originating from Simply Statistics.
So, these blue points are adjusted for
the red points in a sense.
And this actually shows the fitted
model relative to the data,
there are a lot of zeros early on,
and then it took off quite a bit.
But this is the fitted model,
the blue line is the fitted model,
and the gray points
are the actual data points.
So you can get more information on
log-linear models and multiway tables.
And another very common problem
that occurs in Poisson data is when
the particular number, zero,
occurs way more often that it should.
This is called zero inflation.
Then the Poisson model would allow it to,
if it wants to fit the other counts.
And so this is called zero inflation.
And so there's a lot of different ways to
handle zero inflation in Poisson data, but
you need to think about that.
In this case, yeah, we might be concerned
with handling all of those zeros early on,
though there's a temporal component
to zero inflation in this case,
which makes it even a little bit
more challenging to model it well.
But Jeff used a package here that actually
helps assist with modeling zero inflation.
So I hope you enjoyed the lecture.
That's the end of the lecture on
Poisson data to get you started.
I'm hoping you can use a lot of your
skills from binary logistic regression
analysis and your skills from linear
regression and multi-variant regression,
and just apply them directly
in our Poisson examples here.
Next lecture is the final
lecture of the series.
It's kind of fun little
lecture with just some kind of
a bonus content of a smattering
of things you can do with later
models that I think are kind of cool.
So look forward to seeing you next time,
and thanks for taking the class.